Welcome back.
You aromatic go to people.
I am desperately running out of adjectives but I liked aromatic it made me smile.
In this video we're going to learn about texture progress notes.
We're going to start work on a suspicion meter a fail safe for our game and in this video we are going
to sell the gooey for the next we're going to wire it together a longer you'll seen by any kind of NBC.
The more suspicious they get and if it reaches the full amount the game will be over.
And if you stay out of sight it'll slowly decrease so let's get right into got.
Okay so if we're making you scene I want to gooey and gooey is going to travel around with the camera.
Okay so give me the center of a press play you will see us.
I'm in the center right here.
And as I move around I want the gooey to be right here.
I want it suspicion me to down here.
And then later on we can add other stuff to the corners.
I also wanna make sure that the gooey doesn't change color with our canvas modulation and that that
guard stops playing with the sofa.
That's irrelevant.
And that we can move.
And that when we move it'll move with us.
I don't want it being stuck on the level in that corner.
I want to move with the camera.
Both these tell me that I can't just use a control node as my route.
I want a canvas layer.
So what I'm to do is make a brand new scene and get a custom node I would type in canvas layer and named
as gooey capitals capitals for graphic user interface.
I'm going to save this and put it in interface and call it gooey and before I go any further.
So I don't forget to do this.
I'm gonna go into my levels go into my template level I'm going to add it in as a child here.
So was going to instance in our gooey which is right here and it's now there.
Great.
I can close the template.
I don't need it.
Okay.
So right now we have an empty canvas modulation.
So let's put a control node as a child of that and I want the controller to cover whole screens can
be full rectangle.
And I wanted to to measure itself to anchor from all four corners if any of these corners is moved it
will take that into account as measurements.
Okay.
I want my suspicion meter down here.
So I'm an add a child lose control node and it's going to be a 9 patch rectangle and I'm going to take
a quick look in my graphics under interface underpin G I've got these lovely ladies one of them these
lovely graph glass panels because I have something in the corner here here and here I think that's pretty
good.
We've got these lovely little corner ones so this corner there we've got another corner I can't see
them from here.
Let's double click on the link.
Take a look.
Is all four corners.
This is the bottom left corner is cut is the bottom right corner is cut.
I want this one right here.
So that's going to be my main patch right.
So it's a drag that's.
OK this is the wrong size.
So I'm going to resize this resize as under rect let's give it a good size.
How about 200 by 80.
That feels good.
And it's all blurry so let's put a patch margin I want to make sure I cover all of it so we can go.
Nice to be with 10.
I can go a little less but if I go at let's say six you'll notice something weird is happening that's
so 10 allows me to catch this entire corner for 10 pixels in awful directions and that's looking pretty
good.
Now I don't want it in this corner.
So I'm going to use my layout and I make sure it's anchored to all four rectangles again just to be
on the safe side I don't hit bottom right and let's give the margins on the margin and say we'll be
negative 24 picks us from the right and negative 24 from the bottom.
It's shrunk our mind petrol but that's still looking pretty good all right now everything from here
is going to be inheriting from its parent.
So I'm up with the theme on the control mode.
Let's just bring that in now so on the theme load in and what do we put it we put it on the interface
and a theme nice sensible place for it.
So the theme is now loaded him.
So now I can put a label in.
However let's think what we want in the center of this frame.
I want two things horizontal to label and some sort of progress meter.
So that tells me I need a center container put in a center container and that center container should
cover the entire rectangle.
However I don't want to go past these borders for any reason so since given a margin of we think six
almost perfect isn't it five let's say six six from all sides.
Negative six from there negative six from there.
And once I've got the center container I want to split things horizontally and I want to scale dramatically
so let's go within each box container
so all the children of each box container will be organized horizontally in the order I put them in.
So let's start with the label.
And I'm going to write suspicion suspicion.
It's a little big isn't it.
I might have to.
I don't really want to change the font here so I might just make the nine page rating bigger.
Let's make it bigger.
Let's say you're on now to 40 by one hundred and let's reposition you so bottom right.
And then we'll lose some of that size I put my margins back in.
So that's a minus.
What do we say.
Twenty four minus 24.
Looking a little better I can live with that.
I might make this a little bit wider.
In fact I could just drag it and do that.
But I wanted to type them in so it would drag it make it look good because it's an eye patch it should
keep everything although it's distorting a little there.
So let's just give it a 20 pixel on all four sides.
It's nice and clear Mason crisp white.
So we have our suspicion label now.
I want my texture progress.
This is a new note as a child of each box container.
Let's make our texture progress.
This is a texture based progress bar so we can have a horizontal or we can have clockwise going vertical.
Any bar where you're measuring something.
OK.
So I've got it in here.
Now inside interface you've got a whole bunch of stuff you can do.
So you've got these horizontal bars you've got these circles get these little curses explore this and
use it.
What you do is you put an under a progress under is what does it look like not filled.
Progress is what it looks like filled.
You can use different fill modes left to right clockwise top to bottom whatever you want.
And if you play with it change the value here.
So your max value is 100 human value is zero.
You can change the value that.
So that's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to create your version of suspicion me to see what you're comfortable with play with a
little poser video.
Give it a shot.
And when you come back I'll show you my suspicion meter
and welcome back.
OK.
So I I'm going to use the dots and I don't want to use green and red.
That's really bad for critical information because so many people suffer from a form of color blindness
to confuse these two.
So I mean these dot shadow as my under enemy dot red as my progress and to check what it looks like.
Let's type in a value of twenty five.
And right now that's filling from left to right.
OK.
So if I drag that across you can see it fine but know what I want.
Let's go clockwise.
That to me feels a lot better.
Look at that
I'm really liking it.
So at this stage I think we're ready to take a look at what this looks like.
So I'm going to run the game now as I load this is going to be an issue first.
It looks fine right.
When I move around let's just not have full screen on for a minute I move around it should move with
me there it goes.
When I change colors it doesn't change color.
However let's go to the computer and use a computer.
I can't.
Why.
Well this control node covers the entire screen and I control node thinks it's ugly.
So when I'm pressing it it's trying to catch the mouse.
So it's got backups control mode.
And on the mouse I'm she'll say ignore the mouse.
You just don't do anything with it at all.
OK now I'll try that again I can look up the computer.
I can press it.
Eight 8 three double nine.
Over here.
Eight three double Nine has a flip we got over there walk through this door.
Dude can you just navigate.
Here's your door.
Come now.
And the suspicion meter is going to walk with me.
So boop and that's looking pretty good isn't it.
Now right now it's not working.
So let's take a look at how we can get that working.
If I go over here to remote.
This is what's happening alive.
OK.
So I can take a look at my gooey open the control over the line patch rectangle open the center container
and all the way down until I find a texture progress.
And let's change the value here to 50.
And back in the game and here it is 50.
OK.
So what I mean local that's just what the scene would normally look like remote is what is actually
running in-game now.
And any changes I make here will change in the game.
Useful little debugging thing you can do.
And that brings us to the end of this video in this video.
We've looked at how to use the texture progress note how to have the mouse ignore gooey elements if
we need to just go through the mouse and how to change these Specter values and see those changes in
game so that's really good progress.
Excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.